Word order in questions: Grammar chart
Infographic explaining the word order in English questions, with examples for standard question order and questions using the auxiliary verb 'be'. The chart illustrates the placement of question words, auxiliary verbs, subjects, and main verbs or adjectives for forming questions in English.

Download full-size image from Pinterest
Questions in general
If we want to ask a question in English, the order is QWASM: Question word, Auxiliary verb, Subject, Main verb. In Yes-No questions (questions where the answer is yes or no), there is no Question Word.

Questions with be as the main verb
When be is the main verb, it is used as the Auxiliary in the question, and then we don’t have a Main verb after the Subject.

Auxiliary verbs
In the position of Auxiliary, we can use be, do, have or any modal verb: can, could, will, would, should, etc.

Have is only an auxiliary verb in the form have got and in the present perfect.

Have you got any brothers or sisters?
What have you cooked for lunch?
For other uses of have, we need an auxiliary verb (do, did) for questions.

What time had you dinner yesterday? 
What time did you have dinner yesterday? 
Have you to do it now? 
Do you have to do it now? 
Have got only has a present form. It does not have a past form.

Had you got many toys when you were a child? 
Did you have many toys when you were a child? 
Question words
Colorful educational chart of question words in English, categorized by their use such as 'WHO' for person, 'WHERE' for place, and 'HOW OLD' for age, with example dialogues for each word

Download full-size image from Pinterest
How much
We can use how much to ask about the price of something.

How much is the jacket?
How + adjective
We can use how + adjective (any adjective) as a question word.

How tall are you?
How fast is your car?
Which vs what
We can use which + noun, and we can also use what + noun. We use which when there are a small number of possible answers. Look at the difference:

Which car do you like, the red or the blue? (there is a small number of possible answers)
‘What car have you got?’ ‘A Mercedes.’ (many possible answers)s